Alright,
you need to wake up now because this topic is extremely important.
This is about data types in JavaScript. And what do I mean by data types?
Data types are the different types of data that JavaScript allows you to work with.
And let's just take a step back.
Imagine an ocean full of bits.
Billions and billions and trillions of them.
(boom sound)
Your computer has billions of bits in memory.
So we've got an ocean full of bits.
That would be a complete mess.
So you want away to organize all these bits.
How do we do that?
Well, let's say we organize them into chunks to make it easier to work with it.
How do we define a chunk?
Well, let's say a chunk represents a piece of information called a value, and values play different
roles, depending on his data type.
So you could almost say you've got this whole bunch of bits in your PC and we're dividing those bits
into different chunks and those chunks are made up of different values, different data types. Some
values are numbers,
others are text, others functions and so on and so on.
Now you might sometimes read and people may tell you that JavaScript is an untyped language, but that's
just incorrect.
You can assign all sorts of different types to variable.
JavaScript does have types.
It's not complicated because JavaScript only has two broad types of data.
(1) Simple data types and (2) Complex data types. And that couldn't be simpler,
let's be honest. There's two data types in JavaScript. In broad categories, it's just simple and complex.
But JavaScript doesn't state it as simple and complex. And this is why I don't want you two get intimidated
with the language.
It's just that they use fancy words to try and intimidate people.
But at the end of the day, this is all it means.
In JavaScript, they refer to simple data types as ... "primitives". And they refer to complex data types as ... "objects".
Let's now see examples of these different types of data types.
So we've seen you get primitive data types, and you get objects or complex data types.
What are some examples of primitive data types? In JavaScript
you can kind of break it down into six high level categories of primitive data types.
You've got Strings, you've got Numbers, you've got Boolean's, you've got Null, you've got Undefined
and you've got a Symbol, which is something introduced by ES6, which we won't worry about right
now.
Complex data types,
You get some of those as well. Object literals is an example.
Arrays is an example,
and other complex functions.
We'll get into those later.
Thre's is a method called typeof in JavaScript, which helps you determine, you guessed it, the type
of the data you're dealing with. Let me show you.
So let's say a = wally.
Let's say b = 5, let c = true.
What type is wally?
Yes. Wally is a string -
it's text.
What type is "b"?
"b" is a 5 (a Number), and "c" should be a Boolean.
So what we can do, is we can document.write(typeof(a)).
You can see it's a string.
"b" is a Number, and "c" is a Boolean.
So this is just one example - typeof - that you can see to determine what kind of data type you're
working with.